---
title: Sorcerer
nav_exclude: true
---

# Sorcerer

**Starting Equipment:** Outlandish costume worth 1sp.

**Starting Skill:** Foreign Parts

- **A:** +1 SD, Soul Casting, 1 Ambient Sorcery
- **B:** +1 SD, Billowing Robes
- **C:** +1 SD, Soul Vision
- **D:** +1 SD, Magic Ward

You gain +2 to Save vs Mind Altering Effects (charm, sleep, mind
control) for each Sorcerer template you possess.
If you have a Sorcerer template, your base Save value does not
increase as you level. It will always be 5+Charisma Bonus.

#### A: Soul Casting

You alter the world through sheer force of will. You need no
charms, no runes, no spells, no incantations. Reality is yours to
command.

To change the world, select an ability (Alter, Create, or Harm)
and a number of Sorcerer Dice (SD) you wish to invest, roll
them, and add the numbers together. As a Sorcerer, you get +1
SD per Sorcerer template. Some effects depend on the number
of [dice] invested and the [sum] they show. Doubles, triples and
quadruples result in Calamities.

SD can be used any number of times per day. Unlike a wizard’s
MD, they always return to your pool. Each time you use your
sorcerous powers past the first time per day, add +1 ID
(Instability Die) to your pool. These dice do not count towards
the [dice] and [sum] of sorcerous effects, but they do count
towards doubles. Use 2 different colours of dice. Increasing the
power of your sorcerous effects may also add ID.
Sorcerers don't run out of steam. They have the opposite
problem.

#### B: Billowing Robes

If you are wearing an outlandish costume worth at least 10gp,
your armour counts as Leather. If you are wearing an outlandish
costume worth at least 100gp, your armour counts as Chain. If
you are wearing an outlandish costume worth at least 1,000gp,
your armour counts as Plate.

#### C: Soul Vision

You can see the souls of living creatures. This allows you to
guess the approximate location of invisible creatures. You can
also immediately tell if a person is possessed, undead, protected
by the Authority, or a spellcaster. The price for this gift is your
connection to others. You permanently lose 1d6 Wisdom (as the
constant scrutiny of souls warps your mind) or 1d6 Charisma (as
you become callous and jaded).

#### D: Magic Ward

Reduce all incoming magic damage by 2. This does not apply to
self-inflicted damage. Once per day, negate a spell that targets
you. This does not apply to spells generated by Calamities.

## Sorcerous Effects

#### Harm

Deal [sum]+[dice] damage to one target creature or object you can see.
Creatures and magical objects can Save to negate. Flavour however you'd like:
lightning bolts, beams of light, grasping hands from the underworld. It’s your
soul
vs. the target’s soul. Unlike your other abilities, this effect is permanent.

- +1 ID for each prior sorcerous effect you've used today.
- +1 ID per additional target.

#### Alter

Make a declarative statement affecting one creature or object you can see. The
statement is true for [dice] rounds. The statement cannot cause damage directly
(use Harm), move a creature or object, or create new objects or effects (use
Create). Creatures and magical objects can Save to avoid being altered.

- +1 ID for each prior sorcerous effect you've used today.
- +1 ID per additional target.
- +1 ID to affect an area the size of a wagon.
- +2 ID to affect an area the size of a cottage.
- +3 ID to affect an area the size of a village.
- +1 ID to make the effect last for [dice] minutes.
- +2 ID to make the effect last for [dice] hours.
- +3 ID to make the effect last for [dice] days.

#### Create

Create something. The creature or object created exists for [dice] rounds.
Without adding ID, the creature is person-sized or smaller and has 2 or fewer
HD. Objects are person-sized or smaller.

Creatures created cannot deal damage. You can create objects with magical
effects (flying carpets, invisibility cloaks), but created objects cannot deal
magical
damage (you can make a regular sword but not a +10 vorpal sword of fire) or or
provide permanent effects (healing potions only heal for the duration listed,
rings
of permanent stat gain only work for the duration). You can make a sword that
looks like a +10 vorpal sword of fire though.

- +1 ID for each prior sorcerous effect you've used today.
- +1 ID per additional object or creature created.
- +2 ID to create a creature of up to +4 HD.
- +1 ID to create an object the size of a wagon.
- +2 ID to create an object the size of a cottage.
- +3 ID to create an object the size of a village.
- +1 ID to create a magical or sufficiently weird object.
- +1 ID to make the creature or object last for [dice] minutes.
- +2 ID to make the creature or object last for [dice] hours.
- +3 ID to make the creature or object last for [dice] days.

## Calamities

1d6 | Doubles
1 | Brightly coloured sparks fly from your ears.
2 | You make a noise like a thunderclap.
3 | A strong wind billows around you, extinguishing all torches within 30’.
4 | You act last in the next initiative round.
5 | Take 1 damage.
6 | Take 1d6 damage.

1d6 | Triples
1 | Effect targets adjacent legal target instead or creates a related item.
2 | Teleport 1d6x10’ in a random direction.
3 | A random spell is also cast on your target.
4 | Take 1d6 damage. You are flung 1d10’ in a random direction.
5 | Add +1 ID to all rolls for the rest of the day. Take 1 damage.
6 | Take 2d6 damage. If below 0 HP, explode. 3d6 damage, 20’ radius.

1d6 | Quadruples
1 | Lose 1d6 permanently from a random stat.
2 | Effect is reversed (harm heals, creates the opposite of intended item, etc.)
3 | Effect is maliciously altered (harm strikes an ally, alters unhelpfully, etc.)
4 | A random spell is also cast, targeting you.
5 | Roll on the Death and Dismemberment table. (1d12+previous injuries).
6 | Take 4d6 damage. If below 0 HP, explode. 5d6 damage, 50’ radius.

### Outlandish Costumes

1d10 | Outlandish Costume | Ambient Sorcery
1 | Long woven cloak of many colours. | Clap hands to take 1 damage and teleport 1’.
2 | Thick coat made of human skin, teeth, and hair. | Can read any language, but must read out loud.
3 | Living full-body tattoo of scenery, birds, and clouds. | Do not need to eat or drink. Instead, eat 1gp as a ration.
4 | Turban and billowing silk robes. | Thumb can glow like a candle.
5 | Three conical felt hats stacked inside of each other. | Hold breath to weigh as much as a feather.
6 | Coat made of pierced sea-shells. | Can walk on water for 1 round.
7 | Nude, save for a few leather scraps. | Pleasant spicy smell.
8 | Geometric robes with silver symbols. | Invisible to birds.
9 | One narrow strip of cloth. | Rain or snow will not fall on you.
10 | Extraordinary long hair and nails. | Invisible to cats.

