---
title: Zweihänder
parent: Classes
---

# Zweihänder
An elite mercenary skilled in the use of the Zweihänder sword. Called upon by
noble armies to fill gaps in their ranks.

**Starting Equipment:** half plate, Zweihänder, feathered helmet

**Starting Skill:** Bargaining, Nobility

**Bonus:** you deal 1 additional damage per template of Zweihänder when wielding
your Zweihänder

A: Black Company
All Zweihänders are part of the Black Company, an wide ranging mercantile
group. You can always recruit Black Company Mercinaries at a rate of 8 gold per
week and black company Zweihänders at a rate of 12 gold per week.

A: Zweihänder
Your Zweihänder is made for crowd control and is capable of crumpling armor
like a it’s tin. Whenever you attack you may either target two adjacent enemies
with a wide sweeping swing, or an overhead swing at one target that ignoring 2
armor.

Level Goal: receive personal pay of over 100 gold for completing a contract or
defeat a rival mercenary group in combat

B: Sunder
The Zweihänder sword is made to counter pole arms. You may choose to sunder a
polearm wielded by an adjacent opponent, if they fail a strength check their
weapon splinters in their hands becoming nothing but a useless shaft.

Level Goal: Serve a king, duke, or high noble in a battle that you win in
glorious fashion or obtain an ancient artifact 

C: Dismember
A solid strike from the Zweihänder is more than capable of causing brutal
dismemberment. If the Zweihänder deals 10 or more damage to a target with a
single blow, that character must make a constitution save or receive a wound,
even if their HP did not  drop negative.

C: Renowned 
The Zweihänders are nothing if not filled with pride and arrogance, that is
nothing else, is well deserved. You have connections with high nobility and are
trusted by most noble houses; however, you are disposed by mercenary companies
other than the Black Company. 
Level Goal: Amass a steady following of 15 or more hired mercenaries of the
Black Company and win their true respect and loyalty or bring the crown of a
felled king to a noble that has contracted your service in a noble war.

D: Unbreakable
You are fearless in battle, as are your men. You are immune to fear. Those in
your party receive +1 to save against fear.

D: Manslayer
You are a true terror on the battlefield, a slayer of men. You receive and
additional attack when fighting humanoids. 
